<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:ui="http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/facelets"
      xmlns:h="http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/html"
      xmlns:f="http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/core">
<h:head>
<title>Government of India</title>
     <link rel="stylesheet" href="navbar.css"></link>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="body.css"></link>
  </h:head>
    
  <h:body style="font-size: #{DCProfileTabGeneralController.editable ? '12px' : '20px' };">
    
    <h:messages globalOnly="true" />   
    
<center><h2>Indian Constitution</h2></center>
  <div class="topnav">
  <a class="active" href="index.jsf">Home</a>&#160;
  <a href="indiancitizenregistration.jsf">Citizen Registration</a>&#160;
  <a href="indiancitizenlogin.jsf">Citizen Login</a>&#160;
  <a href="goilogin.jsf">Official Govt of India</a>&#160;
</div>


<h2> About the Indian Constitution project</h2>
<h4>Aim of the project is to bring awareness about Indian Constitution and their articles(amendments).</h4>

<h2>Indian Constitution(Bharat Samvidhana) </h2>
<h5> The Constitution of India (IAST: Bhāratīya Saṃvidhāna) is the supreme law of India.
The document lays down the framework that demarcates fundamental political code, structure, procedures, powers, and duties of government institutions and sets out fundamental rights, directive principles, and the duties of citizens. 
It is the longest written national constitution in the world.
It imparts constitutional supremacy (not parliamentary supremacy, since it was created by a constituent assembly rather than Parliament) and was adopted by its people with a declaration in its preamble.
Parliament cannot override the constitution.
B. R. Ambedkar and Constitution of India on a 2015 postage stamp of India
It was adopted by the Constituent Assembly of India on 26 November 1949 and became effective on 26 January 1950.
The constitution replaced the Government of India Act 1935 as the country's fundamental governing document, and the Dominion of India became the Republic of India. 
To ensure constitutional autochthony, its framers repealed prior acts of the British parliament in Article 395.
India celebrates its constitution on 26 January as Republic Day.</h5>
 
 <h2>Main Objectives of Indian Constitution</h2>
 
 <h3>The objectives stated by the Preamble are to secure justice, liberty, equality to all citizens and promote fraternity to maintain unity and integrity of the nation. 
 The date is mentioned in the preamble when it was adopted i.e. November 26, 1949.</h3>
 <h2>Preamble</h2>
 <h3> The preamble of India contains tenets highlighted in the Objective Resolution drafted by Jawaharlal Nehru in 1946
 Preamble declares India to be a sovereign, socialist, secular and democratic republic. 
 The objectives stated by the Preamble are to secure justice, liberty, equality to all citizens and promote fraternity to maintain unity and integrity of the nation</h3>
</h:body> 
<style>
  .topnav {
  background-color: #333;
  overflow: hidden;
}

.topnav a {
  float: left;
  color: #f2f2f2;
  text-align: center;
  padding: 14px 16px;
  text-decoration: none;
  font-size: 17px;
}

.topnav a:hover {
  background-color: #ddd;
  color: black;
}

.topnav a.active {
  background-color: #04AA6D;
  color: white;
}
  </style>
</html>